Hey everyone. Today we're going to be
focusing on API design and this is going
to be specifically in the context of
system design interview and abuse. So
for those who are unfamiliar, I'm Evan.
I'm a former staff engineer at Meta and
the current co-founder of Hello
Interview. Um now for today, if you
stumbled on this video because you have
a dedicated API design interview or even
a front-end interview that you know is
going to be heavy in API design, this
video might still be useful surely, but
it's not going to go into the level of
detail uh that you might need for those
interview formats. However, if you're
here because you have an upcoming system
design interview or even a product
architecture interview, then you're in
the right place. And so, we're going to
cover everything that you need to know
for the API design portion of those
interviews, but it's going to be just
enough for you to do well without over
complicating things. And so, on the
screen, you see the hello interview
delivery framework. This is how we
suggest you progress through any system
design interview. starting with the
requirements, outlining your core
entities, API design, data flow, high
level design, and deep dives. And so, of
course, we're going to be focusing on
this blue box today, but I want to call
this out, and this is really important.
In your interview, you don't want to
spend more than 5 minutes here. Um, I've
seen far more candidates fail interviews
because they went into too much detail
here as opposed to having moved too
quickly through this. So, I'm going to
give you the detail that you need to
know, but please just keep that in mind.
in the actual interview, you want to be
concise and quick through this portion.
But with that context set, let's get
started. Before we go any further, let's
quickly answer what is an API anyway.
Now, chances are you probably already
know this. Um, but for anyone who's new
to the concept, API stands for an
application programming interface. And
simply put, an API allows two software
components to communicate with each
other using a defined set of rules and
protocols. And so in this simple diagram
that we have drawn down here um you can
see three components. You have a client,
you got a server and you got a database.
Now you can think of a client as your
laptop or your browser. The server is a
machine and a data center and the
database is yet another system storing
all that data. Now all three of these
need to talk to each other and they do
so through APIs. So let's look at a
really simple example for something like
ticket master. The client which is your
browser is going to ask the server in
your server warehouse somewhere for a
list of events. That thing that ask is
an API call basically get me all the
events. The server then receives that
request and it's going to make its own
API call to the database saying run the
query and fetch me all of those events.
We're going to get those back to the
server and the results are going to be
returned back to the client. Now in
interviews you're typically just focused
on the external API calls from the
client to the backend service. So this
arrow here. Now when it comes to
userfacing API calls between the client
and your backend like we just showed, uh
there's really just two main protocols
that you need to consider for your
system design interview and that's REST
and GraphQL. And the sizing here I did
intentionally and that's because REST is
almost always the right answer unless I
I opted to make it bigger here. But REST
is is is your go-to. It's the default
and it's just built around standard HTTP
methods like get, post, delete, and it
has resources represented as the URLs.
We'll go into plenty of detail on that
in just a moment. GraphQL is a bit more
flexible. It lets the clients request
exactly the data that they need for a
single query. And this is going to do
things like reduce what's called
overfetching and underfetching. Again,
more on that in just a moment. And then
for the communication between
microservices, so this isn't client to
server, but this is internally server to
server. RPC or remote procedure calls is
usually your go-to approach. U it's
super efficient for those
servicetoervice calls. We'll talk about
that a bit, too. I also want to make
just just a really quick shout out uh to
real-time protocols, things like
websocket, server sense events, um web
RTC. So these create open continuous
connections where you can stream data
between the client and the server. Think
about like a chat app for example. And
so we're not going to dive into those
today, but I've linked a really great
breakdown um in the description if you
want to explore those those real-time
protocols and those real-time updates in
more detail. All right, so we're going
to go through each of those protocols
one by one and we're going to start with
REST, which as I mentioned is your
default choice. Um, if you're in the
interview and you're not sure which one
to use, then choose REST. There's a 95%
chance rough estimate that you're
probably going to be right. And so, as I
mentioned, REST is built around standard
HTTP methods. These is your gets, your
posts, your deletes. Um and so maybe
just looking at a simple example to
start something like get events is going
to return a list of all of the events
for our ticket m our ticket master app
right now importantly um rest is built
around this concept of resources and so
if you've been following the hello
interview delivery framework as I think
you should be then resources map
directly to your core entities or your
nouns of your system and so in the step
in the framework just before your API
design you outlined all of your core
entities. In the case of ticket master,
these are things like events, venues,
tickets, bookings, right? And these are
your resources in your REST API. And so
what is a what is a resource and why
does it matter, right? We should
probably start there. Well, resources,
they are represented in your URL path
and they define the data that is being
acted upon. Okay? And so look at some of
these examples. Events is our resource
here. That's the thing that we're
getting. This is going to get us all the
events in this case. um we want to get
the information for just a single event
based on the ID. Similarly here for
venues in this case we want to get all
the tickets for a given event with this
particular ID. You can start to see the
format here. And so these things that
are in the URL path specifically these
plural nouns, these are the resources.
And so some quick rules of thumb, one of
which I just alluded to is that these
are always plural nouns. They're not
verbs. And so you can look at this
example. I'll see this sometimes. Post
events, create, no need for the verb.
Don't do that, right? It's just post
events. The verb is always the HTTP
method. That's what's going to be
suggesting or expressing the action, not
the URL itself. We'll go into more about
those uh HTT verbs in just a second. Um,
now, it's worth saying that like most
interviewers, myself included, we're not
going to grill you on your REST design
being super perfect. Um, I have plenty
of candidates that don't have plural
nouns. they mess things up here. Um,
it's not the end of the world. Like most
interviewers are going to look past it
because this isn't the most important
part of the design, but there are rest
purists out there who really care about
this stuff. And so if you're just trying
to increase your chances of passing the
interview, this is a really easy thing
to get right. Your API uh your REST
APIs, plural nouns for resources. So
with your resources in place, you need
to understand those verbs or the HTTP
methods. And so these are all the ones
that you need to know. These define as I
mentioned a second ago these define the
action right and so the first one here
is git this is going to allow you to
retrieve data and so the example above
was git events is going to give you that
list of events now post is when you want
to create new data importantly this is
not item potent that means that you can
run this multiple times and it's going
to create new rows so imagine you had a
post/events
and you were trying to create a new
event you had some data that you were
sending like the event name, date, etc.
And you sent that multiple times. Well,
it would create multiple rows in your
database. It would create multiple
events. So, post creates data. It's not
item potent. And then you have put. And
put is for item potent updates or
replaces. And again, item potency just
means that you can run it multiple times
and you're going to get the same result.
And so, for example, if I want to update
an event that already exists to say
something like maybe I want to replace
its data entirely, I can run this
multiple times and it's going to just
continue to overwrite that same row. No
matter how many times you run it, your
final state in your database in your
backend is always going to be the same.
Now, patch is used for for partial
updates. And so, this is when you only
want to change a part of a resource. And
so, let's say I want to patch an event
to change its date. Well, then my API
would be patch slashevents.
And then inside the body of that
request, I can add that new date um so
that we can change it. And then delete,
of course, is self-explanatory. And so
delete is going to remove events. You
can imagine something like
delete/events/
the ID of the event. And that's going to
delete that given ID. And so for your
interviews, don't obsess over these.
Like realistically, you're going to use
git and post. Um, there are some small
use cases for put and patch, but I see a
lot of candidates who like spend all
this time trying to debate put, patch,
post. It probably doesn't matter. Don't
spend too much time here, but it is
useful to know the distinctions. Sure,
if you're updating a resource, patch is
probably the one that you want. So, next
up, your API, zoom out a bit there.
Okay, your API needs to accept inputs so
that it can process them and return
obviously the the right response. These
are the inputs that you're sending to
the server. And so in REST APIs, inputs
typically come in one of three forms.
You have your path parameters, your
query parameters, and then your request
body. And so your path parameters, these
identify the specific resource, and they
appear directly in the URL. So for
example, if I had get events and then
slash123,
then that's going to fetch the event
with the ID 123. Now, you're going to
want to use these path parameters when
the resource is required to fulfill the
request. So, I can't get the details for
events one, two, three without one, two,
three. It's required. It's strictly
required. And so, it it makes sense for
it to be a path parameter and put
directly in the path after the resource.
Next up, you have the query parameters.
And so, query parameters, these are
optional filters um and they can further
refine your request. And so if we look
at this example, get events would return
to us all of the events that we have,
but we want to filter it a bit. We only
want events that are in Los Angeles and
we only want those on the 1st of
January. And so we can use a query
parameter in order to do that further
filtering. Um, I guess a quick thing on
syntax that's worth noting is that for
query parameters, the the first filter
is going to be denoted with a question
mark here and then everything after that
is an amperand. So if we were to add
additional ones like maybe uh why am I
not thinking of something I don't know
like time right it's always amperands
from here on out the syntax is just a
question mark first and then amperands
uh the third one is is your request body
and so this is where you send data when
creating or updating a resource most
commonly this is with your posts your
puts or your patches and so for example
if we're going to create an event we
would post to events and in our post
body or in our request body, we' put the
JSON object of all the information that
we need in order to create a new event.
Like in this case, the title, the
description, the location, and date.
Really quick rules of thumb. If it's
required to identify the resource,
you're going to use a path parameter. If
it's an optional filter, you're going to
use query parameters. If you're sending
data, then you want to use that in the
request body. When it comes to our
responses,
um responses to API calls come in two
parts. The first is that you have the
status code. This tells clients whether
the request was successful or if
something went wrong. The second, of
course, is the response body. This is
the data that you asked for. And it
usually comes back in JSON format. And
so there's a couple status codes that
are probably worth knowing. These are
things like 200 success, 2011 was
success that a resource was created, 400
for a bad request, 401 not
authenticated, 404 not found, 500 server
errors. You've probably seen some of
these. Um, for interviews, it's usually
enough to just group these into buckets.
And so instead of like picking the exact
right error code, which a it doesn't
matter too much, and b you might make a
mistake, you can just use syntax like
this. So you can say 2xx in the case
where it was a success, a 4xx in the
case where there was a client error. So
this is things where like the request
was wrong, it was missing information or
they're not authorized. And then 5xx in
the case where there was a server
errors. Um, additionally, when it comes
to your responses in the API section,
it's usually a distraction to outline
all of the data in the response, what I
recommend candidates do is that they
just shorthand it by using those core
entities or the resources. And so, if I
get events, then what's going to be
returned? Well, it's going to be a list
of events. But I don't need to sit here
and list off everything in the event at
this moment because I have more
important things later in my system
design interview to get to. And, you
know, me and the interviewer kind of
agree. We know what an event is and as I
get into my highle design, I'll go into
more detail to outline exactly what an
event is. Now that we've covered REST,
let's spend some time talking about
GraphQL. This is the other major API
style referred to often as protocol uh
that you might mention in your system
design interview. We'll spend a little
bit less time here because uh it's less
likely that you're going to use it, but
it's good to understand the background.
And so first off, GraphQL was created by
Facebook in 2012 and it solved some real
serious inefficiencies with REST. Um,
especially during the mobile revolution.
This was when mobile was being rolled
out. And so back then, mobile networks
were super slow and fetching all the
data needed for a single screen to load
often required multiple REST requests,
each of which returned maybe more data
than was necessary. And so Facebook's
solution was called GraphQL. and it let
clients specify exactly what data they
wanted returned by any given request.
And so they used it for about three
years internally and it's become open
sourced. That was I think in in 2015 and
it's been growing in popularity ever
since. And so the the real problem was
that with REST when you have different
clients, so you have web, mobile,
whatever else, and they need different
data, you're stuck with just two
options. Option one is you can create
multiple REST endpoints that give each
client exactly what they need. U but
then you're going to have a messy sprawl
of basically all these excess endpoints.
Alternatively, you can have one single
endpoint that maybe returns all the data
anybody could need. Um but now you're
going to have a huge payload and these
large payloads obviously have to go over
the network and so it increases latency
and it's going to take longer for things
to load. And so GraphQL avoids both of
these problems because it just allows
the client to ask for exactly the fields
that it needs and developers can create
one endpoint and things are flexible
from there. Importantly, this is still
running over HTTP. Actually, I should
probably make this clear. This thing
that you see here is the body, but
you're still going to have like, you
know, some GraphQL endpoint. This is
your GraphQL endpoint. And then this is
your post body. Even in the case where
you're fetching data, right? So
different than we had over REST. Now,
what's happening here? Um what we're
doing is that we are asking the server
for the event with the ID of one two
three and we're specifying exactly what
we want. In this case we want the name
and the date but we can also nest
related data like we want the venue's
name and address and we want the ticket
details and the section price and
availability. And we can put this all in
one request. And so the key difference
is that had this been rest in order to
get the same data we would have had what
we would have had our git events our get
events one two three in order to get
that event information we would have had
get events one two three in order to get
the tickets we would have had the get
venues
and then whatever the venues uh you know
number was ID was etc you get the
picture and so with GraphQL we were able
to make just one post request to a
single endpoint um and we were able to
include include this query in the
request body which told us exactly what
we wanted and we can get all that data
in just one request. Pretty handy.
There's a couple a couple key gotchas
with GraphQL or interesting tidbits that
I think are probably worth calling out.
The first is what's often referred to as
the N plus1 problem. It's a common
pitfall. And so you can imagine that
this query instead was to get the top
100 events and then for each of them we
also need to get their venue and their
tickets. Well, think about what this
means for your database query. To get
the top 100 events is easy. This is a
single query. Select events, maybe sort
by something, uh, limit 100. But then in
order to get the venues, you're going to
take the ID of all of those events and
then go make a bunch of subsequent
queries, uh, n queries in order to get
the venues for each of those events, and
you end up with n + one total queries,
right? Whereas in rest, it probably was
just one query. And so the way that this
gets solved in production is that it's
usually just solved with batching or
using a tool like a data loader which is
going to group all of the needed venues
or the tickets into one combined query
instead of a bunch of small ones so that
we can just issue one of those queries
to the database. So if you introduce
GraphQL that's kind of a common
question. What are you going to do about
N plus1? Simple. You're just going to
use a data loader. You're going to batch
and make one query to get all of the
venues based on the ids that were
returned from uh the first query. Cool.
Another difference with GraphQL relative
to REST is around authorization. And so
with REST, you you usually secure an
entire endpoint, but with GraphQL, you
can secure access at the field level.
And so, for example, um you can allow
users to see an event's name and date,
but not its revenue data, for example.
And this is all handled by what's called
your schema resolver. And so, you can
check permission and field. You can
check permissions field by field.
Something that you can't do with RE. All
right. Last up, as we mentioned, while
most of the time in your API section
you're going to be focused on external
APIs, so from clients to your backend,
there are some interviews, especially
backend heavy ones, well, you'll need to
focus more on your intraervice API
design. And so, for example, if you were
designing Facebook's post search
infrastructure, how do you search for
posts? There might not be a client-f
facing endpoint at all. Instead, you're
going to describe how internal services
like your indexing service, your ranking
service, your logging service, how all
of these communicate with each other.
And so, in these cases, in these types
of interviews, you can either maybe
briefly mention that there are no
external APIs and skip the API section
altogether. That's totally valid. Or you
can choose to outline the internal APIs
needed for the service defer service
communication. I would just check in
with your interviewer for what it's
worth. Ask ask them which of those that
you would prefer. But in the case where
you take the latter approach, then this
is where ARP uh RPC, excuse me, comes
in. And so RPC is built for efficient
serviceto-service communication. It's
lighter and faster than REST, especially
uh when using binary protocols like
gRPC, which we'll talk more about in a
second because instead of working with
uh resources and URLs, RPC is modeled
around calling methods directly on a
service. And so it's almost like making
a local function call, but it's over a
network. And you can see those examples
here. So instead of get events 1 2 3,
it's just get events with a parameter.
Like these are just function calls, but
they're in effect calling a function on
a different service efficiently. Now,
the key distinctions that make RPC so
fast, unlike REST, is that it eliminates
all of those HTTP overheads that come
with traditional web APIs. And so when
you're making a REST call, you're
usually dealing with HTTP headers, you
got your status codes, you have URL
parsing, you're converting everything to
and from JSON formats. But RPC cuts
through all of that by making just
direct function calls using uh compact
binary formats. And so protocol buffers
is kind of the famous one there. But
essentially all it does is it stores the
data in raw bytes instead of human
readable text. Which ends up meaning
that it takes far less space. And what
does far less space mean? Well, it means
things can move 5 to 10 times faster
because there's significantly fewer
bytes to send over network traffic. Now
you may be thinking to yourself and it's
it's a natural question. If RPC is so
much faster, then why don't we use it
for client to server communication
instead of REST then? Why do we even use
REST in the first place? And the answer
is because clients are incredibly
diverse. You have web browsers, mobile
apps, you have third party developers
and they all need to understand your API
without special setup. And because REST
uses standard HTTP that every client
already knows, it passes through
firewalls easily. Um, and it provides
this human readable JSON that developers
can easily debug and understand, right?
So all those things are great and what
makes it so common. Um RPC on the other
hand it requires that both sides agree
on the specific protocol in the binary
formats and so this is great if you
control both ends like internal
microservices. Um but it becomes a
nightmare when you try to deal with
external clients who just want to make
simple requests. And so you sort of have
this like uh global language that
everyone understands even though it's
inefficient which is rest. And then you
can have this really hyperefficient
internal language um for your
microservices internally communicating.
So coming back to our example, what's
what's happening here? We defined some
service like our ticket service and it
has three RPC methods. It has a git
event, a create booking and a get
available tickets. Each method takes in
the request message and it's going to
return the response message. So for
example, our git events is going to take
in the get event request which includes
the event ID and it's going to return an
event object. Now these messages are
defined um by data types using protocol
buffers or protobuff and it's a compact
strongly typed language. I got an
example of it down here. So as a
developer, you define the inputs and the
outputs and the routes like this. And
then gRPC is going to autogenerate
clients and server code in a bunch of
different languages. And this is how
your Python server in one box can talk
to your Java server in another. It's
going to use these protoiles, at least
in the case of gRPC, generate all these
strongly typed clients. Um, and then
you'll be able to just call those
function calls and they'll go to the
other box. They'll get a response like
it's a normal function. and gRPC is
going to handle all of the network
communication under the hood. All right,
so we're almost done, but there's a
couple things that I want to call out,
and that's that in an interview, if you
get follow-up questions about your API
design, it's usually one of two things.
It's either about pageionation or about
security, either authorization or
authentication. And so, let's talk about
each of these really briefly. The first
is pageionation. Pageionation is useful
when you have any endpoint that's going
to return tons of resources. And so for
example, if we have get events and we
have a million events, this could return
back to us all 1 million events. Well,
what's wrong with that? Of course, this
is going to be a huge payload. This is a
massive JSON payload with all of those
events, which is going to be really slow
and make it a uh high latency request
and we're not going to get that data
back very quickly. And so we introduced
pageionation. Pagionation is what you
see on all the different websites when
at the bottom you can kind of page and
hit next next next and it fetches each
page only as you need it. And so there's
two types of pageionation. The first is
called page based or often called offset
based pageionation and it's the simplest
and it's where we use those query
parameters in order to specify which
page we want and how many items. And so
in this case I'm saying I want the first
page and I want 25 items. And what this
means in my database query is that I
just want the first 25 items. Um, now if
I were to make this page two, then in my
database query, this is going to say I
want items 26 through 50. And that's
what it's going to return, just 25
items. Now, this is usually good enough
and it's usually the right answer. But
there are cases for which you have a lot
of writes. And you can imagine that I
have tons of writes and new events that
are being added every single second. And
if that was the case, then by the time I
go to fetch the second page, it could be
that there were a bunch of events added
above and now I'm all out of order and
I'm either going to see the same events
that I already saw um or things aren't
going to be kind of consistently
pageionated or sequenced in the way that
I would expect, right? Because writes
came in at the same time. And so this is
where we can use cursor-based
pageionation. And so the way that cursor
based pageionation is that instead of a
page you have a cursor which tells you
where to start and this is usually just
the last item that you received. And so
you could for example imagine that you
had all of the events and you sorted
them by event ID. And then you first got
the first 25 events. This returns those
25 events plus their event IDs. And now
the next time that I want to request
something, I'm going to include in the
cursor the ID of the last event that I
got. And what this is telling my
database then is give me the next 25
starting from this specific ID. And
because they're sorted, nothing can
change in the middle there. And we're
just going to get the next 25 after my
given cursor. That's basically how
pageionation is working.
Now, next up, let's talk a little bit
about security.
And so for security, sometimes it's good
to proactively call out which of your
endpoints are authenticated. And so if
you think of something like a Yelp, then
any user can view businesses, but only
authenticated users can review a
business. And you might want to say that
just verbally to your interviewer, this
one's authenticated. I sometimes will
denote using something like this, right,
to say that it's authenticated. In this
case, who can post events? Who can
create a new event? Well, it's only
admins. So this not only requires
authentication but it requires that you
are an admin. This is not proper REST
semantics. This is just a shorthand to
make this clear to your interviewer. In
reality, the way that we enforce that
somebody is who they say they are is
with authentication either via a JWT or
a session token. And so in either case,
these are put on the header of the HTTP
request. So when you send an HTTP HTTP
request, you have the URL, you have that
body that we talked about, and you also
have a header where you can specify a
bunch of key value pairs. And within
that header, you'll add either what's
called a JWT, a JSON web token, or a
session token. In the case of a JSON web
token, you just have JSON information
that says everything you need to know
about that user session, like for
example, their name, the fact that their
role is admin, and you know, when their
session expires, maybe. Now the reason
that um it's a JSON web token is that it
uses a signed token. So we don't trust
clients to then this this this token is
existing on the client's box. We don't
want to trust them to just go and change
their role to something else of course.
And this is where we have the signature.
And so you always have that JSON blob
plus a signature associated with it that
gets sent over to the server and the
server just makes sure that that
signature is one that we can verify and
then it can trust the data. Um, in the
case of a session token, the thing that
we put in the header is just a simple
token. Think of it like an ID or
something. Um, and then we can go look
in the database for their session
information. So, you can just store in
some database or some cache their role,
their name, and all these things. Use
the ID that came in in the header in
order to in order to handle that. Now,
the place where this ends up being
important and where I see mistakes from
users is that you could see something
like this. Imagine it was Twitter and I
want to create a new tweet and I did
something like this. Here's the text for
my tweet and there's the user ID of the
user I want to create the tweet, me.
Now, it's by itself not a bad thing to
put user ID in the body here, but it is
a bad thing to imply that this is what's
going to be used in order to create a
tweet on someone's behalf. Because what
this means is that I could post to
tweets with your user ID and I could
create a tweet for you. That would
obviously be bad. And if you just put
this in an interview, that's probably
what your interviewer is assuming. And
so instead, it's best to kind of leave
user ID out there and just specify
verbally say, uh, I'm going to post to
tweets to create a tweet with this text.
And we're going to know that it's me
creating the tweet based on my JWT or my
session token, which will be in the
header. Now, very last thing before I
let you all go is that if you want to
practice this yourself, head over to
hello.com/practice
and you can practice on common interview
questions, outlining your API, clicking
get feedback, and then getting instant
feedback on how you did with your
particular API endpoints for that given
problem. Of course, this isn't limited
only to the API endpoints. This is that
full delivery framework. So in this case
I'm working through ticket master from
the requirements to the core entities
the API all the way to my highle design
and deep dives getting personalized
instant feedback each step along the
way. So people really enjoy this
feature. We get great feedback from it.
If anything the criticism people give us
is I wish I knew this sooner and you
guys should market this better which is
why I'm throwing it in this YouTube
video here. So I hope you learned a
little bit about API designs today.
Hopefully it was useful. Um, most
importantly, best of luck with your
upcoming interviews. You guys are going
to do great.